So let's go over the first user.
If you go and you turn the meeting
to the in your repo to three users,
I have an HR AI Markdown file.
But this is what we're gonna talk about.
This is our first user.
This is the invisible user, the user,
the user, you're never gonna see but
you know they're there.
They have been in HR AI first Gatekeeper
that you're going to encounter,
especially as a new dev,
as a dev that hasn't had their first job,
they're also gonna be the most difficult,
gatekeeper that
you're gonna encounter because you don't
have the advantage of having experience.
Then it can be looked at
as hardcore This was a job,
let's take in contract work or
volunteer work they're able to like
actually track the way that the use
of these systems look at it is that
they're gonna be able they're gonna
be your hardest adversary, right?
So AI has been increasingly
integrated into HR operations,
in various aspects of
resource HR management.
Right, few types of AI tools
that we're looking at today and
these days also ATS think of light
workable things of that nature, right?
That handles the recruitment needs,
that handles the primary purpose, but
it's primary purpose is to work
through like all your resumes, right?
So there's like 10,000 resumes,
it's reading your resumes, looking for
the keywords, and
you're like, if you don't...
Have these keywords you're fired
automatically bam thank you I don't know
if you've ever had this happen
where you sent a resume in and
then like almost immediately you've
gotten an email that says thank you but
you're not what we're looking for
like wow how did you read that that fast.
They didn't.
ATS did, right?
Which is why one of the things that you
need to be doing when you're working on
your resumes, things like that,
make sure that you have
the keywords that are in these
job requirements in your resumes.
Because what's going to happen is when
you don't have it, it quickly scans it.
It's scanning for the years, it's scanning
for those languages, for those tools.
And the next thing you know, oyu're
either in or you're out quickly, right?
Your goal is to try to bypass that system,
right?
Chatbots and virtual assistants, how many
of us have encountered having a chat,
use a chatbot on a job site or
anything like that?
No one yet I've encountered it twice so
far and going behind the scenes and
being able to like ask about the
information of that those what they do is
they use LOM's and
they're judging based upon your diction,
your punctuation, your lack of
punctuation, the average reading human,
reading skill level of an American, which
is a seventh grade reading level, average
reading level of a programmer, which is
a eighth to 10th grade reading levels.
There they are looking at all of these
little keys of like how you're speaking
and how you're responding to answers.
And they're looking at their
judging by their LOMS,
their language learning models and
data, they're going by this stuff.
And that's what you're getting your
grade off of when it comes to what
you're talking about in regards
to these HR models, right?
So that's another one.
Predictive analytics, these tools
that use AI to analyze patterns for
employee behavior and predict trends.
Let's say you went to K Bootcamp, X, Y,
Z, and you went to K Bootcamp A, B, C.
Well, the company has been hiring
bootcamp grad for about 10 years and
they have the data to showcase between
the two of you which one's gonna be
the most successful within the first two
years of being in their program, right?
They collect this data, so
they know that ABC boot camp,
those grads tend to be
20 to 40 percent less.
Be successful and within the first
two years of being at this job so
what we're gonna do is that we're
gonna take that time and we're gonna
be there be hired they're either gonna
say no to ABC grant or they're gonna
scrutinize ABCs work a lot harder during
the interview process versus xyz's.
Because XYZ has to predictive analytics
the data to support that they
may be able to handle the first two
years at this job or higher chance for
a higher percentage of being
able to support that, right?
So those is, that's how they're
using these tools today,
and going to have three more tools so
you'll be like this is gonna be crazy.
How many of you all have done,
like, hacker rank or.
So I have two.
Anything like that when there's
like a interview, job or
anything like interview tech questions
where you have to fill the code challenge,
they just sent it to you and
you have to bring it back.
>> I know I would do them for fun.
>> You would do them for fun,
like never for an interview.
>> I haven't gotten any interviews yet so
>> All right okay well well they've done
now is a lot of spiritual hacker rank
they've started adding AI to this so
where based upon the education
level that you're saying or
the reposing your GitHub,
they are sending.
They're sending these problems to you and
they're looking at the problems and
generating these questions based upon what
they assume your experience level is.
And if you pass them or
let's say you don't do something,
let's say you do on a senior engineer
role or let's say, great example.
If you're talking about
a cloud engineering role, but
you don't set up AWS amplify
as a part of your or
you don't even bring it up as a part of
your, this is what I would do component.
They're looking at this they're
flagging it automatically.
And there's not even a person and
part of the,
the initial technical spring that's
even involved is just a robot.
When you and me,
I will train you and them and
the final is the employee engagement tool,
right?
So let's say you finally get a you
get a initial conversation on video,
and there's a one on one we're talking
well the AI is a layer between you and
the engagement tool and the user.
And what's happening now is that it's
reading to like how you're acting.
This person seems a little unsure.
This person is looking at not making
a lot of eye contact things that
the AI is taking notes of you the user,
is you know,
you're being interviewed by someone else,
right?
And it's helping the employer make or
the person is initially contacted and
connected with you is making it
helping them make decisions about you.
Right?
So
it's little this is the world
you all have inherited.
Unfortunately, they're getting a lot more
invasive with their tactics when it comes
to hiring and this is where we're going
if this is where we're at, that's fine.
That is fine like we go further
down on the repo I have,
how to have tips tricks and
how to understand all of these right so
you're in the repo right now
you go towards understanding I
have how to use how to understand the ATS.
We talked about where you how to use
those keywords when a job description and
a resume and a cover letter right as very
very important, we want to be able to
utilize this stuff against them,
right, interacting with the chatbots.
Be sure you're clear and direct whenever
interacting with any HR chatbot.
Any website that you're interested in,
any company you're interested in that has
a chatbot, you wanna be clear and
direct with those chatbots, right?
The chatbot doesn't understand your query?
Try rephrasing.
Preparing for AI based interviews
practice makes perfect.
You're doing a great job.
You're practicing those crazy code
challenges that have absolutely
nothing to do with the code,
you're gonna work.
[LAUGH].
It is the worst way to showcase like what
people are doing, but it is there makes
my head hurt a little bit, but it exists.
Were there, so you keep practicing
those and practice with perfect and
that way you'll be able to be relaxed and
natural when those interviews so when
they're going through those processes,
do you like I've seen this before.
So let me go ahead and run this.
And engagement learning tools make
the most just make the most of that
experience.
When I'm talking to people just like now,
I'm make sure I'm making eye contact.
I am using seventh seventh to
eighth grade speaking language.
I am also focusing on trying to
make sure that I am confident or
I'm being, I'm trying to integrate
myself into their team, right?
What are we doing?
All right, so
this is what we would do as a unit.
This is the why this is why I think of
things I'm speaking out the how I solve
problems or how I would solve problems.
I'm even speaking out how if I would
have this problem, how I would ask my
leadership or the senior devs right
like a great example is, all right,
you get stuck at it I don't know if you
have none of you have had interviews yet.
Right?
So you have all right you, okay, so
a question that gets brought up all
the time is okay you're stumped
on a problem how do you approach
your senior dev with this.
Well, this problem that you're having.
Well, what I say is well, first I am going
to make sure that I have tried a, b and
c and I have gone to these websites,
as well as review the documentation.
Then when I approach my senior developer,
I am gonna showcase them
the code I've been working on.
I'm going to tell them the solutions
that I have attempted already and
then the resources I have links to
the resources that I've gone to and
already researched.
That way it showcases to your senior
developers that you have already tried,
whether it is a senior dev at work or
a senior dev out in the wild on Twitter or
LinkedIn.
They always respond better
when you have showcased your
work that you've already tried
to solve this and figure it out.
They love, okay, I'm just trying,
I'm helping you get those last 10,
those last 10 inches out of
a hole like 3 meters, right?
I can, I can work with that, right?
So that is the best way.
To when you're answering that problem and
you're speaking through how to how
you're going to first do the work or
try to do the work and then when asked to
help showcase how you try to do the work,
right, so that is how we you know,
circumnavigate, we never get around.
AI but
we know it's not gonna work all the time,
where it's mostly most of
the time I've had so far.
I tried this with three of my students,
three of my veterans and military spouses.
They weren't full time PwC students,
all three of them ended up getting jobs.
And one of them end up getting
a job wasn't even as a software
engineer because she wanted to be a
Product Manager and it they all got jobs.
They all it all worked.
And like, I was like, okay.
So now that we're learning this,
let's make sure that everybody
else around us knows this.